brats23-3dunet-attention.ipynb - 3D U-Net with Attention Mechanism for Brain Tumor Segmentation
Overview
This Jupyter Notebook implements a 3D U-Net with an attention mechanism for brain tumor segmentation using the BRATS 2023 dataset. The model leverages the power of 3D convolutional layers to capture spatial context from MRI scans, enhancing segmentation accuracy with the use of attention gates.

Contents
Data Preparation:

Detailed steps for loading and preprocessing 3D MRI data from the BRATS 2023 dataset.
Application of data augmentation techniques specific to 3D medical imaging.
Model Architecture:

Implementation of a 3D U-Net architecture with an attention mechanism.
Explanation of how attention gates improve the model's focus on relevant tumor regions.
Training Pipeline:

Configuration of the training pipeline, including loss functions, optimizers, and learning rate scheduling.
Use of evaluation metrics such as Dice coefficient and IoU for monitoring training performance.
Results Analysis:

Analysis of model performance on validation and test sets.
Visualization of segmented outputs compared to ground truth labels.
Usage
Install Dependencies: Make sure to install the required Python packages before running the notebook:

bash
Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt
Run the Notebook: Use Jupyter Notebook or any compatible environment to run:

bash
Copy code
jupyter notebook brats23-3dunet-attention.ipynb
Execute the Code Cells: Follow the steps within the notebook, executing each cell to perform data preprocessing, model training, and evaluation.

Files
brats23-3dunet-attention.ipynb: The main notebook file containing all the code for 3D U-Net model development and experimentation.
Model Details
Architecture: 3D U-Net with attention gates to enhance segmentation quality.
Dataset: Utilizes the BRATS 2023 dataset for brain tumor segmentation.
Frameworks: Developed using TensorFlow/Keras or PyTorch (modify based on the actual framework used).
Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to suggest new features, improvements, or report issues.
